Add post about Chinese TDG (#540)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2023-09-18-the-definitive-guide-2-cn.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Chinese edition of Trino: The Definitive Guide"
author: Manfred Moser, Martin Traverso, Matt Fuller
image: /assets/ttdg2-cn-cover.png
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
show_pagenav: false
---

Trino, Trino, Trino everywhere. Just looking at our website stats and the users
in our community chat, we know that Trino is going places. We also know that one
of these places with a large user community is China. And now we have good

> news for you.

Reviewer: Let's mention the good news in the opening paragraph/preview? I don't think we want to clickbait people into our posts or bury the lede like this.

Author: Well... the title already says it .. but I can repeat if you think this is necessary.

Author: Done

<!--more-->

Today, we are happy to announce that a translation of the book [Trino: The

> Definitive Guide]({{ site.url }}/trino-the-definitive-guide.html) to Chinese is

Reviewer: Should we specify Mandarin? "Chinese" isn't one language and could be Min/Cantonese/Shanghainese/etc.

Author: Well ... in the written way its "Simplified Chinese" and its kinda implied .. I think we are more likely to mess up and offend .. the current form is simpler.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, based on my extensive 20s Google search, it's better to be broad rather than specific to one form of Chinese.

now available for the communities all across China and far beyond. We invite you
all to get your own copy:

<div class="card-deck spacer-30">
    <a class="btn btn-pink" href="https://product.dangdang.com/11487789827.html">
        Trino权威指南(原书第2版) 机械工业出版社
    </a>
</div>
<div class="spacer-30"></div>

Our thanks for making this happen go out the teams at O'Reilly and dangdang. We
hope many readers will benefit from the translated edition.

> We look forward to chat to many of our new readers and Trino users on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We look forward to chatting with many of our new readers and Trino users on the
```

Author: Updated

> `general-cn` channel on [community chat]({{site.baseurl}}/slack.html), other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`general-cn` channel in [The Trino community Slack]({{site.baseurl}}/slack.html), other
```

Reviewer 2: @mosabua I also like Slack more but mostly my preerence.

channels, and direct messaging.

> Also don't forget to tell us about your usage of Trino as guest on [Trino

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, don't forget to tell us about your usage of Trino as guest on the [Trino
```

Reviewer: Should we say "reach out to us on Slack if you'd like to be a guest" or something to that effect? I think it's unclear to readers how they'd be a guest.

Author: Done

---
layout: post
title:  "Chinese edition of Trino: The Definitive Guide"
author: Manfred Moser, Martin Traverso, Matt Fuller
image: /assets/ttdg2-cn-cover.png
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
show_pagenav: false
---

Trino, Trino, Trino everywhere. Just looking at our website stats and the users
in our community chat, we know that Trino is going places. We also know that one
of these places with a large user community is China. And now we have good news

> for you. A translatio of the second edition of the book to Chinese is now

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for you. A translation of the second edition of the book to Chinese is now
```

Author: Done

available.

<!--more-->

> Today, we are happy to announce that a translation of the book [Trino: The
> Definitive Guide]({{ site.url }}/trino-the-definitive-guide.html) to Chinese is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we are happy to announce that a Chinese translation of [Trino: The
Definitive Guide]({{ site.url }}/trino-the-definitive-guide.html) is
```

Author: Done

> now available for the communities all across China and far beyond. We invite you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
now a lower barrier to read for native speakers. We invite you
```

Author: Added this instead of replacing the other part.

all to get your own copy:

<div class="card-deck spacer-30">
    <a class="btn btn-pink" href="https://product.dangdang.com/11487789827.html">
        Trino权威指南(原书第2版) 机械工业出版社
    </a>
</div>
<div class="spacer-30"></div>

> Our thanks for making this happen go out the teams at O'Reilly and dangdang. We

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our thanks goes out to the teams at O'Reilly and dangdang for making this happen. We
```

Author: Done

hope many readers will benefit from the translated edition.

We look forward to chatting with many of our new readers and Trino users on the

> `general-cn` channel in [the Trino community chat]({{site.baseurl}}/slack.html),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`#general-cn`](https://trinodb.slack.com/app_redirect?channel=general-cn) channel in [the Trino community chat]({{site.baseurl}}/slack.html),
```

Author: Didnt realize that works now..

Author: Done
